# Recipe_scrapers
Python tool that takes recipe blog URLS and turns them into "pure recipes" without bloated info.

# Dependencies:
 pip install recipe-scrapers requests
 
# To run:
  python3 recipecore_prototype.py

# Project purpose
A common issue people encounter when searching for new cooking recipes is having to sift through massive blogs to find the ones they want to cook. Another common issue is that users have to waste a significant amount of time waiting before cooking due to the length of these sites. These recipes may contain potential allergens, but you will only know that after spending 10-15 minutes reading an entire article of bloated, excess information. This blog format serves no actual significance to the cooking process, but only to waste time. There is no guarantee that the individual will be interested in the recipe due to specific requirements in the cooking process, such as the tools required to prepare it.  
This may not be an issue for some people who would like to sit back in their reading chairs and learn about the specific details of a particular flavor or cooking process. But in most cases, when people want the recipe, they “only want the recipe.” Not the other heaps of info or narrative about your grandmother’s special brownies. This slows the process and can cause user disinterest for people who just want to cook food and move on with their day. 
The solution to this problem is a software that can simplify web recipes and give users the details in a very brief way, without the paragraphs and paragraphs that users have no desire to read at the moment. However, some may say that this could be problematic. Imagine a user really liked the recipe and was actually interested in the blog about it, and maybe lost the web tab they kept open. This tool is designed to keep and save that URL, so if the user really cares about reading, the opportunity is still there.
The goal of this is to have the ability to simplify recipes and allow users to modify them for their own reuse and further modification. The tool works by the user finding a URL of a potential recipe, then plugging it into the application, and running the summarize command. The user gets only the essentials: the recipe name, a brief 2-4 sentence summary, ingredient list, and cooking instructions (all done using the recipe_scrapers Python library) in a simple dark-mode tkinter GUI. This layout is a lot like how a cookbook formats recipes and is kept similarly to how a grandmother keeps documented copies of her favorite recipes and instructions in a special cookie tin atop her fridge. The difference is that it is located in a special place on your personal device for improved accessibility. It's a simplified style without the bloated details, embracing evocation in traditional recipe format.
The method of retrieving just the recipe is what 80% of users' time is spent doing with the application. The user may not be very interested in the specific recipe after they simplified it, for example, maybe they don't have a Dutch oven to make potato soup, so the option to discard it for another one that does not require a Dutch oven to cook is doable by entering a different recipe URL and summarizing the same way. They can replace without expending their precious storage if they don’t want to keep the previous recipe they summarized. This is the primary feature, but not all; it's about 20 percent of what you can do with the app and its output. The extra stimulation comes from the other 80 percent, which includes the ability to print/save the recipe as a .txt file for reusability. The application also allows the user to make edits to the summarized info, such as if the user changes the name of the recipe to dairy-free potato soup, and removes cheese from the ingredient list, the changes are easily edited through the application or otherwise easily changeable in the saved .txt file itself. It allows the user to make their own identification with the recipes when saving/printing a file. 
Because the recipe’s title output is kept as the saved file name, it saves you the trouble of manually changing each file name in your documents folder. The files are small and can be stored easily; people can readily access them if they are shared using copy and paste, or directly from the file, or in zipped archives of summarized recipes saved to wherever you want to keep them on your device. The last and most important being that if you do want to go back and read the source of the recipe, the URL is also included in the recipe file, which provides accreditation to the original writer of the recipe.  
The program meets the three aims of human factors by reducing the time wasted. It does this by providing only the needed components to reproduce a recipe and improving user efficiency for finding and using recipes. All they need to do is provide a URL to get the recipe within seconds, versus the 10-15 minutes of reading the whole blog.  The simplification of the recipes allows users to locate the ingredients easily, which can be crucial to determine potential allergens, giving them the ability to make alterations to the recipes when applicable or find an alternative recipe. The reusability and editability of the recipes allow for user satisfaction because they have the freedom to make changes, use, or share the recipes however they please.
 	When handing off the software for peers/coworkers to test usage, they were asked to think of any meal they were either hungry for or interested in making for themselves. Following the question, they were asked to find a blog-like website that had the meal recipe and enter the URL into the software. With only two recorded errors out of 11 different test uses, the recipes were simplified within seconds. Most, if not all, users were pleasantly impressed at how easy it was to get the recipe they wanted. 
 When errors occurred, it was as a result of a website that was incompatible with the recipe_ scrapers; providing a new URL would *generally fix this issue. Satisfaction was fairly good, with some users also asking for the recipes to be sent to them following the testing. Although the testing sample was small for the software, more testing with a larger sample can more accurately determine the success rate of webpages/blogs that are converted to a simplified “pure recipe” form. Likewise, user feedback suggested adding feature options for doubling recipes, pdf exports, and even printing options for users who want small notecard-sized recipes for printing and laminating.
The application also applies to the human tech ladder in the following manner:  Physical - by providing information located quickly and in a short time. Psychological - reducing the cognitive load of reading the entirety of a blog containing a recipe to only the "pure recipe" form. Team - recipes can be easily handled and read by a team, or multiple individuals who are cooking. Organizational - if recipes are used by restaurants that want to cook them, they can be used for their businesses. Political - legally speaking, when they are given the recipes, they are provided the source URL referencing where they got the recipe. If they make edits to the recipe, it becomes their own modified .txt creation.

